in the atacama desert
george has called in wildlife
camerawoman sophie darlington
her thermal camera will be able to
capture the vampire bats feeding
what we need to do to nail it is to see
them feeding
that's that would be extraordinary
that's it
george has tracked them to a sea lion
colony on the far side of the island
it could be a perfect source of blood
for the bats we're coming down here
it's gonna be absolutely awesome that
would be incredible sophie's night
vision cameras should provide the answer
well we're just waiting for the bats to
arrive we're
almost set up so any minute now
vampires will be flying
soon after george and sophie arrive so
do the bats
flitting close to them attracted by
their body heat
what do you got what you got let's see
okay there's a big bull
and there's been a bat flying around
completely harassing him
oh yeah i can see it yeah
there's two of them three there's three
of them
that was a bite this is unbelievable
look at it and there's one at the back
there's more than one
the bats are all over them all over them
they're following it look there's a
vampire back
look it's just following it up behind it
look at it it's right on the back it's
just unbelievable
so they are feeding on sea lions
the bats employ a clever strategy when
attempting to feed on an animal many
times their size
they land close by and creep towards an
area of flesh the creature will struggle
to defend
they're attacking from the rear when the
sea lion is
nowhere there and they keep turning
through the head up
and then the sea lion moves they just
keep following it and the poor sea lions
are being harassed i mean they really
are aware of them
look at him you know it dispels the
the myth of the you know the set of
animals having a quiet sleep at night
they're not it's torment it's absolute
torment
they must be exhausted in the morning
these bats
they're completely and utterly just
going for it
oh wow one's just been hit by that wave
i just can't believe what i'm saying
weighing 40 grams each bat can consume
half its own body weight of blood in a
single feed
lasting up to 20 minutes is that a hot
spot there
is that is that the hot spot that's
waiting we can see the wound
good grief we can see the wound
on the flipper
only the thermal camera can reveal this
extraordinary behavior
the bats are going into the rear end
because that's where it's hottest and
you can really see that in a thermal
camera they're very very bright which
means the blood's very close to the
surface so easy access for the bats an
easy meal i'd reckon
see the wound at the heat signature of
the wound
left by a vampire bat on the flipper of
a sea lion
in pitch darkness that is just
that is truly awesome
it is the last of the team's mysteries
solved
now we know what's happening that's why
there's a permanent colony of vampire
bats here because there's a
permanent colony of big fat blood-filled
food bags for them
[Music]
[Applause]
you